this meeting to
order uh this is the town of Andover
Board of Finance meeting for Wednesday
January
202nd uh we will go ahead and recite the
Pledge of Allegiance I pledge allegiance
to the flag of the United States of
America and to the Republic for which it
stands one nation under God indivisible
Liberty justice for all thank
you okay we will go on to our first
order of business which is public speak
um Eric I'm going to go ahead I think I
just see a Charlene
delmastro um Charlene do you have
anything to add to the public speak
portion of the meeting no I'm all hat
thank you okay thank you I don't see
anyone
else and we will go on to item three
which is changes or additions to the
agenda does anybody have any changes or
additions to the agenda I do yeah Louise
um I noticed that the meeting that was
on
1218 it states
12:28 on the
agenda okay yeah so that should read 12
1218 good point yeah good catch on top
of that that's item 4B yeah I wasn't
meeting but my name is listed on there
as being as attending so that's
okay well all right we can make that
change when we come to that
then okay thanks any uh other changes to
the uh agenda I do y go ahead Kim I
would just like to add the transfers for
the Town garage
equipment I think we're talking about
are we talking about uh changes to this
agenda yeah
okay so that should probably be
6B okay so that was transfers to town
garage equipment well the
transfers for equipment that we've sold
I just want to check on that okay not
sure how you want to put that Mark thank
you I just put transfers for equipment
we'll figure Town garage
okay um I'd also like to add hold on
hold on Liz hold on we need to have a we
need to have a vote on the agenda change
want a second uh actually we should
probably go back I don't know to to me
Louise's first one's just
pretty much a you know that's just a
clerical error so I know if we need to
vote on it but um do anybody want to
Second Kim's motion to add item 6B which
is transfers the okay Liz okay so name
up thank you any
discussion all those in favor say I I
any opposed any
extensions okay hearing none motion
passes thank you okay go ahead Liz um I
would like to add a discussion about
this
um the ahm youth uh
calculation that we got in an email the
town oversight okay we'll we'll just
call it the ahm uh to contribution and
meeting or something like that because I
was going to suggest we add the meeting
to the agenda okay so that would be item
6C which is the ahm uh Town contribution
and
meeting uh anybody want to second that I
will no okay thank you any
discussion all those in favor say
I any opposed
no okay no extensions all right motion
passes that will be item
6C any further additions or changes to
the menu or to the
agenda
um i' like to add one more thing to um
the disc
for budget meeting
dates um the topic of uh budgetary
expectations from town
departments okay normally under budget
discussions we can get pretty wide open
but we'll go ahead and uh the
item yeah let's go ahead and add it item
5 D2 which is this discussion of
expectations the
departmental can you PHR phrase that for
me yes I'd like to add a an item to
discuss um budgetary
expectations of the various Town
departments so Department budgetary
expectations okay
anybody second
that hey Louise thank you any uh
discussion all those in favor say I I
any opposed any extensions no okay
passes okay any other additions or
changes to the menu or agenda I'm
looking at something say menu stop
that okay hearing none I guess we'll go
ahead and move on first one is we have
our approval of the meeting minutes uh
item 4A is the tri board uh meeting
minutes so uh you have those in front of
you uh those of you that attended uh
should be the ones to vote those of us
who did not attend unless you did review
the transcripts or something and you
feel like uh uh you have a good sense of
the
uh um what occurred in that meeting then
you could also vote you know I will
abstain because I didn't wasn't there
so I attended but I'll be perfectly
honest with you I haven't had a chance
to read this to read it yet is is that
something we
could is it possible to move that to the
next meeting for approval or does it
does it
matter uh it doesn't matter there's no
hard and fast uh requirement to to do it
within a certain time uh it's gener a
good idea because then they get posted
up there but
yeah I'm just saying I haven't read it
so I know um Lise was there as well I
was there and I went through I didn't
nothing jumped out at me that didn't
look right yeah we well if if
um so two options here one is that
um we really I guess Louise and Bill
were there so the the you know the two
of you could vote on it if you feel
comfortable with it or we could you know
we could defer it if uh Liz is going to
abstain we could defer till the next
meeting I'm neutral with
that I'm fine with defer until next
meeting um like I said I went through it
it all looks good to me but sometimes
people remember stuff differently and
okay so I'm I'm good either way okay
okay I know about Louise but well if
nobody has any strong feelings about
approving it tonight let's just defer it
to the next meeting then
great yeah we just won't take action on
it okay Mark my apologies it's Joanne oh
hey Joan she is yeah I'm so sorry
everyone we had um some family car
trouble today so we were trying to get
everything arranged and I thought I was
GNA make it on time and then um but I'm
here so what were you just discussing
that's all I wanted to
uh the tri the tri board meeting minutes
so uh Liz was just saying she hadn't had
a chance to review them so she was
wondering if we could table them until
next month okay yeah thank you and again
my apologies I would have let you know
if I thought I was going to be late but
I'm here now yeah no
problem
okay so we will move on to item 4B which
is uh regular meeting minutes
for uh December
18 um I know if anybody had a chance to
look through those I did I didn't see
any issues it looks good to me too
okay I guess I'll go ahead and uh say
any entertain motions to uh approve
those meeting minutes I'll make a motion
to approve the minutes as submitted okay
Bill any second I'll second Rob Rob
seconds thank you okay any
discussion all those in favor say I I
any
opposed any
exensions I do that wasn't there okay
thanks Louise that's right
okay and yet you're the one that caught
the issue with the date so good
job okay so we will the motion passes we
will go ahead and move on to item five a
which is old Business review of budget
to actual uh that is in our packet
um Eric and just right up front we have
anything we need to take a look at I
mean we're getting a little bit past
halfway through the uh through the year
the fiscal
year there's nothing really concerning
at this
point okay anybody have any questions
for Eric specifically about the the
budget the actual so
far no
okay well I guess we will move on then
item uh IB is the check register any
questions on that I only had one and I
just was it's just a curiosity um
restaurant equipment Paradise
11,571 I just wondering what that was
that is the kitchen that's the first
half of the bill for the kitchen for the
gotcha so oven fridge freezer sinks
dishwasher all that kind of stuff I kind
of thought that's what it was okay
thanks
yep you got about 12 grand for
acoustical Solutions
too yeah so that is for two
locations um we've for a long time had
really bad Echo problems in the
community room and also in the community
center so I worked with an acoustical
engineer to come up with a a set of
recommendations for essentially
acoustical wall panel treatments that
will go in both locations to reduce the
echo time in the building so that you
can actually hear people
talk
great
what go Ahad yeah
what's the um the BJ's bill for
$499.99 I saw uh
so specifically I can't tell you we use
BJs for buying supplies for senior
luncheon um given the time frame that
could have also been the uh receipt and
Bill for uh what do you call it for the
Veterans Day celebration
because we buy a lot of the stuff from
from BJs for that
too thank
you who's J who's Nathan L Jacobson uh
Nathan Jacobson is the engineering
company that the town uses
um right now we're paying them for
basically three things they're the
company that's helping us with the
design and permitting for the changes at
the athletic fields on Riverside Drive
um they're also the designer of record
for the bridge replacement at uh uh at
leak Road you know where basola goes
right by that Culvert replacement and
then we also o use them for General
Engineering Services they're a town
Consulting
engineer other
questions okay I guess we can go on to
item 5C which is established baking
relationship with Webster I know we
talked a little bit about this at our
last meeting um anything more on that
Eric or no I was hoping I was going to
have a full-blown proposal for you for
this meeting but it got delet laid um
the treasur will be back for about a
week um the second week in
February um and so we're planning on
having a meeting scheduled between
myself and the treasure and the
Webster's whole financial team um
regarding that so we so we have exact uh
kind of numbers for them um both
discussing the line of credit um and
then we're also looking at kind of three
things one switching over our town
credit cards to them um you know the
line of credit and then the the last
thing would be uh discussing moving some
of the accounts that we have and and I
know uh Joanne you wanted to discuss
uh stiff account and the ability to put
the 2% non-aps account in the stiff
account um and the answer is we really
can't because we can only have one stiff
account and that technically has to stay
a separate account but what we can do is
we can put it in a money market account
um as long as border of finance and bard
of bed are both in agreement with that
which would get us close to the same
interest rate so it's basically not
sitting there earning 0.1% interest it
would not be nice for them to earn some
money on that so that's that's where the
kind of the last thing we're looking at
with
Webster I think we're talking about the
capital fund not the stiff not the 2%
non lapsing
right no I think they well I think they
were talking about both actually yeah
they wanted to do it for the % account
also I we talked about having them break
out the uh uh you know the capital
account as part of that putting that in
there and then giving them credit for
the interest um but then they also Rec
wanted to do it for their own accounts
open separate stiff account I think yep
Joanne yeah I just wanted to pipe in and
I apologize I think I'm gonna be in and
out a little bit of this meeting um but
I'm I've got the volume on and I'm
listening at the same time I that's what
I wanted to ask Eric because of the
request that we did get from the Board
of Ed wanting to put the 2%
line today to try to gather a little
information for our meeting tonight and
I thought from the website again we
still have to gather that there can be
multiple but you know and and and Mark
is right in in briefing what we're
trying to do so I know we're addressing
this for the Board of Ed I hope that
they'll be happy that we're looking into
it and just trying to get the right
information you know that's all we can
do from the authorities that know the
best so I know Eric says one thing which
I you know I take that you know more
than I know about these stiff accounts
but when I went online today I thought
that they said there could be a couple
of them from a town but okay yeah and
then can I ask Eric my my big question
was what since we're talking about stiff
accounts in general what what town money
is currently in the stiff account are
any of the funds in there I I know we
have multiple Bank
accounts I
mean for at any given time you know the
town plus or minus has about $3 million
in the stiff account we move it in and
out monthly depending on our cash flow
to pay bills but yeah the majority of
money that's in our permanent accounts
and our unencumbered fund balance is all
in the stiff account we keep locally
only enough to pay our bills on a
monthly basis
um that makes sense I I know because we
we've had so many questions since it's
Arisen and you know different meetings
and you know now with the board of vet
asking the questions of having theirs
put in and yeah thank you all right I
will be
back you're muted
Mark yeah thanks just got that uh other
questions for Eric related to that
okay so I guess we'll move on to uh item
5D which is the budget discussion
section um the first item is discuss and
set dates for the budget meetings and I
thought I had put some of these in my
calendar but I could not find them prior
to the meeting but I kind of went back
and tried to recreate what I thought
made sense so um as I understand it from
the charter changes the
uh Bud toown budget meeting has to take
place the 2nd week in April which
normally we do this on a Tuesday which
would put it on April 8th um does that
sound right to you
Eric uh I would have to go back and look
at my cheat sheet but yeah that sounds
about right okay the budget meeting yeah
the town budget meeting for some reason
I have it in in my calendar uh Wednesday
April 9th
I don't know if I just got it wrong from
a prior meeting or what but that's what
my calendar
shows with the hearing this the second
the week
before they usually held on a
Wednesday the to budget meeting is
usually held on a Tuesday yeah so I mean
I may have just gotten wrong I'm just
I'm just letting you know I try to plug
these in when we make the decisions um
that's what I had but um you know if
it's the eth it's the eth that's
fine and so you're saying on April 2nd
would be which
meeting well I guess that would the
first or the second I don't know what do
you want to do Mark if is the hearing
usually a Tuesday the hearing is when we
decide it is so typically that would be
on a Wednesday I think we've done it so
that would be the second Trad the week
before if we want to do it the week
before yeah if we do it the week before
that would maximize our amount of time
that we have uh
to work with the budget um you know that
would assume that we don't have
anything that comes up during the
hearing that would make us change it so
if we you know I'm okay with setting the
second for the town budget hearing it
just you know just means that the
following week would be the uh would be
the uh the town budget meeting which I
think is fine what we would have to do
at that point is once we hold the
hearing we would then take the final
vote from as the the board of Finance on
the budget and then go from
there right so so this is all dictated
by the
charter um the board of Finance public
budget hearing has to be not later than
85 days before the end of the fiscal
year which the 85th day I believe is
April 4th so it can be as late as April
4th but then that makes it very
difficult
uh because it the mailer has to go out
five days before the annual budget
meeting and the annual budget meeting
has to be in the second week of April
between April 7th and April
11th um you know we tended to had that
scheduled for April
9th
so we did have April 9th you're saying
okay which is a Wednesday for the town
budget meeting correct if my notes are
correct
is there any reason it has to be on a
Tuesday or there's a strong favorability
for that I mean I'm I'm fine with
Wednesday I'm fine with
Wednesday it's our day right so I'm fine
with it too that's our day okay so Eric
let me ask you this if we have the
hearing um the prior week that doesn't
give you really the time you need to get
the mailer out
right so if you do it April
2nd um um that gives you seven days
and um you can certainly you can do that
because it just has to be in the mail it
doesn't have to necessarily be received
by everybody five days prior um
but um you just have to physically send
out the mailer per the charter it's
close though but I think April 2nd and
given how tight the timeline's in are I
think April 2nd and a April 7th is
doable um but that also means that on
April 2nd if you do the public budget
hearing then you are going to have to
either approve that day or you're going
to have to have another meeting the day
after if you decide you want to make
changes in the budget um right because
you have a really tight time window
there
yep I mean typically I think we've been
able to have the hearing and then and
then vote on the final budget
immediately following because at that
point we beaten it to death um as a
board of Finance the only like I said
the only thing that would be unusual is
if for something happened in the town
hearing we heard something in the
interum that would make us think
differently but we would have to act
quickly I mean that would just be it and
you also could go as early I mean I mean
you could go March 26th too yeah but
that then takes out one of your budget
meetings yeah that's our normal budget
uh or that's our normal Board of Finance
meeting date yeah um yeah we certainly
could
but personally I like the idea of having
it a little earlier uh but it does take
take a week out for
us Liz you had your hand up did you
wantan to oh yeah I just wanted to it's
been a while since I've been to that
town budget hearing so that town budget
hearing basically the board of Finance
presents the budget at that time right
no what happens that's the town that's
the town
meeting yeah so there's two different
there's two different events the the
town budget meeting is the one that's in
person where we where we present the
budget to the town and um
give people and and that's generally
when the town votes to pass it on to
referendum the town budget here Town
budget hearing is just kind of a more
formal uh opportunity for the public to
weigh in on the budget as it's developed
at that point so it's it's prior to the
time the board of finances approved the
final budget to pass on to town meeting
it's just kind of a formal opportunity
to for the public to weigh in on the
budget um okay you know the same the
same way they kind of could during a
public speak session but it's a little
more give and take and it's a little
more open um we rarely have much input
then you know at that point um but
that's what it's for and they're both in
person they're both budget hearing we've
done virtually
typically not saying we couldn't but we
could you know typically we've done it
he
one quick question what date are we
considering right
now you don't have to backtrack the
whole thing I'm hearing
you for the budget meeting the budget
meeting yeah would be on April 9th and
the hearing and then the hearings is
what we're trying to decide it would
either be April 2nd or March 26 one week
or two weeks earlier now we have our
regular meeting schedule for the 26th
yeah right
do you
think I'm I didn't hear everybody's
opinions on this you know I'm trying to
keep my ear to the to the listening
don't we usually have it one week before
I feel like it's been yes because it's
gonna take us we're already on a little
bit of an earlier schedule right
right yeah sometimes we have it early
sometimes we've had it more than one
week before okay um but because you're
right because of the tight time frame it
may make sense just to do it the week
before that's my thought just okay thank
you and what I would suggest is if
you're going to formally select April
2nd then you also schedule a special
meeting on April 3 and you just hold
that in case you decide you need to make
a
change yeah that makes sense and then if
you don't need it you just cancel it
yeah I mean it would be it would be a
ATT a schedule because you don't
actually literally have to call schedule
it until but if anybody just puts that
in as a placeholder in their in their
calendar that would be a good
idea okay
so typically what we do then if we're
going to go ahead and uh we'll plan the
budget town the town budget meeting be
April
9th the budget hearing is scheduled for
Wednesday April
2nd we'll have a tenative special
meeting on April 3D um just in case we
need it to approve the budget and
um go ahead Eric yeah I was just going
to say and this is just kind of a
formality I'm sure they would take your
recommendation but it's the board of
selectman that sets the date for the
annual Town budget meeting yeah that's
true true yeah the hearing is ours but
the town meeting is theirs yeah it's
yours to present but it's theirs to pick
the the date y
okay so um the other two dates we have
on the calendar already are February 26
and March 26 those are our regular uh
budget
meetings uh just because this is what
makes the most sense I think we need to
plan for Budget meetings on March 5th
12th and 19th which are the Wednesdays
in March and then who could ever make
them could make them and then can you
say those Sor 12th 19th yeah yeah 5th
12th and 19th would be budget meetings
of of March yeah just so we'd have every
Wednesday in March yep right so then the
the question for me is kind of when do
we have the joint meeting with the board
of Selectmen to kick off the
process and then um what meetings do we
hold in February beyond that now Eric I
think can you I was looking for my notes
and I could not find him do you remember
when when you expect to have uh the
draft budget to
present so I'll have a preliminary draft
budget to the board of
Selectmen prior to February 3D the board
of Selectmen has chosen the third and
10th for Budget discussion
okay can you repeat those
dates uh February 3rd and February 10th
February 10th is the regularly scheduled
Board of Selectmen
meeting so presuming that that happens
and they're going to limit it to two
meetings you could start any joint
meetings or scheduling any
meetings probably from the 11th on of
February so so what I would propose is
the 12th and the 19th exactly yeah yep
yeah do do we need multiples with them
or do we just do the we're going to have
it once what what what was our thought
here I think we schedule the first two
is you know my my opinion is they can
any of them can be joint meetings you
know we we can schedule them and and
make them op you know optional Y and
then you know if if if they're good with
what they passed on um you know then we
can have that one initial maybe a joint
meeting just to discuss it run through
it make sure we share any concerns that
you know might uh might overlap with the
two boards and then we can uh you know
hopefully just go on and do our work and
we'll just plan for every Wednesday it's
either Board of Finance meeting or a
budget meeting up until the town meeting
and maybe we won't need all those
meetings that would be
great but we'll uh we'll see okay what
day I mean sorry Mark what day did you
decide to start in February or so
February 12th would be the first uh the
first budget meeting my vote was the
19th if I had had if I was able to talk
but we've already decided we'll start on
the 12th well it doesn't really matter I
mean it's just if we want to give more
time we can that's fine no I I mean I I
knew we'd be coming down to between I
just wanted a little time when we're
able to see it to digest it and I know
like er just the third and the 10th were
that's fine no thank you just it it
could turn out that the board of
selectman has you know some things they
want to address and they're not ready on
the 10th you know so then we would just
cancel the 12th and move on to the next
month or the next week because I think
we want we'd want them to be comfortable
with it you know we also have March 5th
on the
calendar and what would we be doing on
that day right said the fifth all yeah
once we kick off the process we're just
gonna meet every week on Wednesday right
and hopefully there you know some will
be longer meetings some will be shorter
meetings um we cancel a meeting if we
don't need it um but basically it's
they'll just be all working meetings
going through different department
sectional budgets trying to reach um
reach agreement on you know what needs
to change and what the final budget
number should be yeah me if you think
about it I think in the past we've had
meetings where we broke things into we
tried to keep it to two hours and it
would take us two or three meetings to
work our way through the full budget so
pick Revenue the first meeting and then
you know
departmental you know we're gonna need
that those meetings we're gonna need
we're gonna need them all yeah probably
most do do different departments come to
those meetings or is that done with the
board of Select they do they come we can
ask anyone to come that we want yeah and
and typically we've done in the past is
uh the large the large uh expenditure
departments such as the uh um Public
Works uh we've had Jay come and kind of
explain what you know what they're
targeting or what you know what their
thinking is um sometimes we've had the
fire commissioner come and kind of
explain what their goals are and why
they've asked for what they have asked
for Ram has come in to us before Ram
comes in
of yep y okay okay so we'll generally
schedule somebody in those first few
weeks to try to get yeah get that under
y other questions or
comments okay so you know for the
purposes of uh scheduling and just recap
it sounds to me mean like what we have
proposed for uh budget meetings would be
uh February 12 February
19th March 5th March 12th March
19th um and then the budget hearing
would be the
2nd with a possible special meeting on
the 3 if we have a challenge passing the
budget and then the town budget meeting
we recommend Board of Select when they
scheduled that for the
9th okay one question no I'm
sorry um can you repeat I was not
realizing we were starting in February
with the budget dates C can you repeat
the February dates I assume it's what
February 9 12th and 19th yeah so
tentatively scheduled the 12th 12th for
the first meeting yeah and 19th and
we're skipping the 26th and then we're
SK 26 is our 26 our regular scheduled Bo
of Finance meeting and same for March 26
so I didn't mention those as addition
okay gotta okay gotta okay trying to
keep it all straight yeah it's a lot
yeah sure is wow yeah I'll send out an
email I'm not even sure is and so for
the record the one meeting I'm going to
miss is I'm going to Miss March
12th because I will not be here then
which one Eric aren't you here March
12th okay March
12th yeah I uh I probably won't be
available for that one
either that's a school vacation week for
many and
uh so that's my vacation week since my
wife is a
teacher okay um would anybody like to
make a motion that we set that is our
budget meeting
schedule sure Bill okay Bill yep as
discussed the feary March dates yep okay
I think we all understood what they were
yep any further
discussion just the quick question we're
starting on the 12th right Mark sorry
that's my discussion yeah yeah tely
pretty much week after week once yeah
with the understanding that we can
cancel any of these
you know as needed thank you okay you
know if they come out of their meeting
on the 10th and they're not ready then
we adjust yep
exactly okay any further questions or
discussion all those in favor say I I
any opposed oh I did have a question
yeah I'm sorry Mark with your absence
and Mark's uh I'm sorry and Eric's at
the same meeting Eric usually sets these
up he usually does the recording how how
would that all get done we're going to
rely 100% on you Bill you'll
take that's a good question I'm sure
we'll I'm sure we'll manage something
all right just want to make sure we have
that covered that's all yep good
point okay uh let me I'm sorry I missed
the vote all those in favor say I I I
any
opposed any
extensions hearing none motion passes
thank you okay now we're going to move
on to item five D2 this discussion of
the uh Department budgetary expectations
so Liz you uh mentioned this one you
want to kind of explain what you're
looking for yeah well I was curious
about what we can
expect in terms of
documentation from the Board of Ed um
I've been doing a lot of research on
other pounds and what is readily
available in their budget and on their
websites and I just feel
like I'd like to see more of a complete
budget that
includes all their
revenues all their revenue sources um
and including a breakout of a budget
from The Early Learning Center and the
reason I bring it up tonight is
because um if we agree that we want to
expect that I want them to have time to
be able I don't want them to feel
pressure you know if it's not something
they're accustomed to
doing any
thoughts Mark it's Joanne sorry I'm
going back and forth go ahead Jo I know
that we've talked about this in the past
and probably the members that have been
in the on the board for a while have
said that too we've we've brought it up
right Mark we we called that more of a
complete
budget um if I'm understanding what Liz
is asking for
um you know with the budget with
expenditures I I just don't I think it's
I think it's very basic what I have seen
historically
and you know it's a pretty big portion
of our town budget and I think to has um
for us to responsibly accept
or um or not accept
certain increases I
think I think we should get full
support can I
documentation go ahead Louise the last
senior um luncheon actually Valerie was
there and she actually gave out some
information on the budget and talked
about it in
detail so what I can do is kind of
forward this over to everybody so at
least you have something to look at in
case you weren't there and she also put
in some sort of an enrollment
report I've seen that I've seen that
budget oh you I've seen that I've seen
that and she has it posted I think that
very same thing is posted on on the
website okay there're also um I'm sorry
go ahead uh I mean I and I'm assuming
you know this but I since I've got a kid
in the school I get the Seesaw texts you
know from from the school and uh there's
a presentation tomorrow in the gym at
7 uh for their about their draft
budget well she also did that
presentation what was it where was I it
was last month's Board of Ed meeting I
think she gave that presentation I do
you think it's going to be
different I don't know I I didn't see
that earlier on so
okay um so the other reason that I that
I feel it's important is
because their preschool programs getting
very large and it's great um it's great
that there's outof Town dollars coming
in to help support the school and the
budget um but we have no we have no
Clarity on that and it's all it's a it's
a
town it's Town tax tax dollars that
we're approving or
disapproving
so I feel pretty strongly about it are
you are you I guess asking like for
financial analysis of the preschool like
you know revenues and expenditures um
specifically just like we would get we
should get expenditures and revenues
from the grammar school and then with a
breakout of the of the preschool um they
do it that in comentry I have examples I
can
show
um it's very
detailed I can I make a comment as well
yeah go ahead Kim I mean I I I do agree
with Liz um the the program the prek
program is growing and I mean it's and
now it's we're looking at maybe 60
children in it that's a substantial
amount of children over at the school
and it for me it would be much easier to
see that broken out however you referred
to it Mark um I think it warrants that
at this time so I'm I kind of agree with
Liz
here and also and this kind of ties into
my next subject which I don't know if we
should just include it the ahm
part
because the 60 children are not all
Andover children
because historically historically
speaking
um about between 20 I don't know 21 and
23 kids Pro progress from kindergart or
from prek to kindergarten except for
that one year in
20 2021 2022 I think it was I could be I
think that was the year when there was
that boom of 38
kindergarteners but historically there's
really only about
between 21 and 22
kindergarteners and but the preschool
has multiple ages right so you wouldn't
expect them all to graduate not they
have three and four I'm sorry they're
not all gonna move up at once is what
Marcus saying right correct about half
right but there are there
are right so correct so there's three
and four year olds I
think so to to add that ah ahm piece in
we know that they open up to other outof
town
schools or other out of town children I
mean um and that ahm figure that is
calculated that we got that that page on
is based on the full enrollment of the
Andover Elementary School and not all of
those are Andover children so I don't
think that's a fair calculation and I
think it's important to address that now
because the meeting is what February 6th
um to accept that budget so I think we
really need to see a breakout of
children how many three-year olds how
many foury olds how many and over threey
olds and and over four year olds and
then
others
um because I don't think the town the
town should take on and we're not
obviously talking 100 children but it's
not fair for the town taxpayers to pay
for the additional children that come
into the program um to base the
calculation for the ahm fee based on
that full enrollment when they're not
all Andover
children that's isn't H ahm though all
three towns and over he yeah yes Andover
SCH it's a good question to ask though
yeah yeah yeah andover's preschool has
over not Andover I'm sorry Marboro has
maror children Hein has Hein children
now I don't know what other towns are
coming into our
program but our ahm Factor should be
based only on Andor children in my
opinion um unless I'm wrong
unless unless there's a reason that
that's not the
case I'm you know welcome to be educated
if you know if I'm wrong but I'm just
saying from a common sense perspective
perspective to me it seems like why are
we including numbers of non Andover
children into that that um calculation
so similar to like the ram calculation
right sorry I didn't hear you similar to
The Ram calculation we only
pay correct right
corre yeah I mean depending I guess you
know it's a fair question to ask I mean
I can imagine an answer to it which
would be that if the services are being
used right and the kids are not from
marbor or Hein and if the kids are from
marbor or Hein then it gets interesting
right let's say that from centry just as
an example right centry there's no
mechanism to charge centry money to for
ahm is
there so if we were to say our Levy
should drop at HEB marel would say but
wait they're not our kids either you
know this could get sticky is my thought
but I think it's a it's a interesting
thing to
and
just you know I don't know how long
that's been a thing and and whether it
started out maybe we only had like a
tiny handful of non-resident you know
kids in the preschool and so it wasn't
really a thing and now it's risen to a
higher level I don't know I don't what
the numbers are I think it's a fair
question to
ask yeah I think we should ask the
question with the program growing at the
rate that it is and it's wonderful that
it's growing yeah and I mean if the new
if the the dollars that come in benefit
the school that's great but it shouldn't
be at the expense of you know the
taxpayers like we pay taxes already on
our children right
education as we should isn't there a lot
of money that grant money that supports
that I thought those preschool programs
thought that was grant money there is
grant money um and there's grant money
that is used certain things but again
we've never gotten a breakdown in what
the grant money pays for unlike centry
which shows all their Grant dollars and
what they go to yeah what I what I think
you know what I think Liz is getting at
is if our enrollment at the preschool
artificially inflates our percentage of
the costs uh our pro-rated percentage of
the costs for ahm then that should be
looked at you know I I doubt it's a big
number but it's not a a fairness yeah we
should just sus that out and ask the
question
um so okay so I bring that up because I
know um Louise you had mentioned you
would go to that meeting You' attend
that meeting I I kind of think we need
to have that question before that
meeting so that if there's any
adjustments to be made and and I'm happy
to to look in to get that answer
okay like yeah I think that'd be good um
I would actually reach directly out to
Tess or Teresa Tressa sorry Tess Tessa
tresa tra she's the director of ahm
that's a perfect question for
her T yeah yeah I just wanted to bring
since we're talking preschool I wanted
to bring everyone's attention that there
are
with the new laws in Connecticut too
with the age there's probably a few
five-year-olds I think they brought it
up at the last meeting too remember if
they don't
turn um by before September then they're
retained in preschool until so I think
that's what we were getting at at the
tri board meeting too when we were
trying to figure out the ages and the
you know the advancing to the next grade
um yeah that's now we have a little bit
of five-year-olds that are going to be
involved in preschool too but there are
four classes and again with popping in
and out as you guys all know um and
thank you Liz for bringing this up I
just was digging through my file when we
were trying
to um have the budget presented in a
different way that you bring up in the
past I had that
document um where we were talking about
the different grants and then the you
know and I think they have we we need to
speak to in the report that the board
has been sending us I think it's called
the Boe monthly report they do start
listing the grants on the right hand
column so we know the name and the
amount but I think we're not quite sure
we know like School Readiness will be
for preschool and different things I
recognize are for the special ed
services that go you know something
called an idea Grant um but we do have
quite a few there um and then one thing
that when did meet with Val about
presenting the budget in a different way
she wanted to bring up that some of the
grants are not allowed to supplant the
budget um you know to be listed in the
expenses
but I don't think it's a bad thing to
ask what each one is going for you know
if the other towns are presenting it in
different ways where it can show that
they get 20,000 for a grant and what
they spend that on so we're not asking
it to be in our budget but just kind of
listing those and maybe giving a little
bit more information so I see what
you're saying but I just dug out my
thing and I remember her specifically
saying we can't use grants to supplant
Bard ofed budget money which we
understand but they also use it to pay
some expenses you know additional and
then she also wrote on there non-funded
things so these are different things
that they've been able to get through
that's my two cents to add to that as we
try to get something a little bit
different okay yeah more detail I was
gonna ask Mark did you and I'm sorry if
you said you were going to do this Liz
did you want me to reach out to the um
the finance person at the board to ask
for a little bit more detail on the
grants is that helpful or are
we as a board talking about asking for a
whole new process have we
decided I mean I I'd like to see a a
more robust budget myself with
expenditures
actuals you know but I I'm just one
person
so you know they're asking for like an
8% increase this year AG
8% wow
yeah yeah they better justify that one I
would like to see both the budgets split
out by
our prek and our K through six kids and
to include all income
sources income expenses R the size the
program I I think that's fair
I would suggest Mark that if you're
going to do that you as a board should
probably vote on that and then you just
send the chair of the Board of Ed and
vowel letter stating exactly what your
budget expectations are yeah I don't I
mean I don't personally know that we
need to vote on it but we can certainly
just through the budget discussion U
kind of agree that we want to have a
little more detail and then send a note
to them um just want to make sure we're
as specific as possible so AG what yeah
so what I'm hearing is we want to make
sure that they've identified all revenue
sources in including grants that they've
been able to get and secure in the past
knowing that they may not be
renewed um and that uh detail of
expenditures um maybe year to date
including an analysis of uh what the uh
kind of the breakout for the preschool
you know do they have you know the
expenditures for the preschool should
you know I you think that they
have an awareness you know the treasurer
would have an awareness kind of of what
the costs are there and the ability to
to separate that uh versus the income of
course that they get from it
so um yeah it should be a simple report
based on all their their numbers anybody
you know a decent yeah it depends on how
they have have it in their system but
yeah they should be able to do it right
it may even it takes some work to to
come up with
well yeah so that's why I wanted to
bring it up tonight because I didn't
want to feel this way and then want to
request this and have them be like oh
now we're hearing about this you know I
think they should have a fair a fair
yeah amount of time to get their stuff
together and I I think at Board of Ed
the the board of board members tend to
get a lot more detail than we typically
would you know have presented in a
public meeting or something like that so
that you know there certainly the data
is there somewhere at some level so
um so the other question that you know
that brings up in my mind what exactly
are you because there's there's a lot of
commonality between the programs I mean
you have a building so do you want to
allocate a portion of the building
maintenance cost to the prek do you want
to allocate a portion of the heating
cost to the prek what do you or do you
want to just because a lot of those are
basically sunk costs you would do
whether you have a small prek or a large
prek so I think you guys got to think
through if you're going to ask them to
do that what you want to attribute to
what yeah that that gets to be a pretty
complicated thing and there's a lot of
assumptions and Analysis that has to go
into that I mean yeah personally I would
say that's probably not get it no I mean
we could we could just do that I mean if
we look at what the building expenses
say you know what take 15% or 10% and if
you wanted to you could allocate it but
Eric is right those costs would be there
anyway that's fair maybe not you maybe
wouldn't have quite so much heating but
you know it would not be huge I think
even if we just had a starting basis
like okay what's the enrollment what's
the attendance you know what are the EXP
instru how right how many salaries are
going to the prek um grants you know
salaries grants um you know everything
having to do with running a school
for the preap other than the building
itself yeah if there's specific supplies
that are specific to the to the pre
correct yeah I think that would be
getting a little too much if we're
asking for we don't need to I don't
think we were doing that I think it's
nice to know I they they talk often and
I believe them that they say it's a
self-supporting that's what she's always
entity because they she says but we
don't and I don't doubt that it's
self-supporting but oh no no no I
understand you want to see the reports
behind so like I said that's more what
we're trying to do we want to get across
that we're not trying to
little my thing like Eric had said oh
how much heating how much electricity
how we're not going there we just want
to kind of have a breakdown and that was
a good good point just to see where we
are because those numbers are very high
like in the 60s so right
yeah Mark I'm just going to ask you
since you know what we're looking for
are you able to send that email or draft
it because the way you presented it with
what you just
said yeah what I'll do is I'll draft
something and I'll send it around for
all of you and if anybody has any input
or comments you can you can reply and
then we'll follow over to them yeah if
we can all look at it before it goes
yeah and if I'm missing anything or
somebody thinks of something different
you know we're all it's you know we're
all in the position of being able to ask
for specific information doesn't have to
be a joint board thing there's just a
little more eff behind it if
we it's a big surprise because we have I
mean it's been two years in a row you
know and now that we're going back and
forth and talking about different things
I mean it's it's worth since you know it
yeah we've been getting more data but
it's ahead of time and Liz was being
considerate too because the last thing
you want to do is prepare something and
then at the last minute you're asked to
bring in more so yeah now that we're in
January okay
okay that sounds like uh the plan
there um anything else under that we
wanted to
address um that was it and that was it
for the ahm piece and I will uh look
into I'll contact that person about
our yeah
um and if it is true that we should only
be considering Andover students then I
will reach out to
Valerie and ask her to send me a
detailed report of yeah we should know
what the breakout is yeah yeah yeah I
mean I think we should have that anyway
as part of of the budget frankly
um I mean I really think that should be
part of the budget but I think we need
to know this sooner than then be only
because this meeting was coming up yeah
yeah although it is going to make a
pretty small
change um because as far as I understand
there's only like four out of time kids
in the prek program it's not a big
number and the prek or the total School
enrollment is only half of the waiting
factor for
uh the the formula so the other formula
so it's based off of two things it's
based off of the Circ Town profile for
overall population of town and then on
the actual school and rment it's based
off of those two factors and it's an
average of those two so if you think you
know four out of
396 you know is basically
1% um and then but it's only half in the
waiting formula that means it would be
about a half a percent change so
theoretically it's about a, bucks um as
I understand it
okay it's good to good to know the uh
kind of the
scope fairly small but it's I still
think it's worth asking the question
just yeah I think it's important due
diligence
y
okay well if uh everybody's good with
that then we can move on to item six
which is new
business um 6A is to discuss the board
of ad uh stiff account
request so Eric you're kind of already
addressed that that your belief is that
we can um only have one stiff account
per Town Joanne you thought you had read
something that indicated we might be
able to have more than that um so it
sounds like that's I don't know if
that's really a question that the
treasurer could answer or we need to do
some more digging on that I did Mark you
know I did send her a couple a list of
questions just to find out you know what
the process would be how would we do
this you sent the treasur the C
okay you know just to make sure because
she has sent us between the board of you
know the Board of Ed has
been asking a few questions along the
way so I kind of re you know reviewed my
emails tried to get information out of
there and I feel like Cheryl at one
point said that if
they wanted to it does have to go
through the board of Finance so I think
they're following Cheryl's
direction to ask about it but I don't
feel like I'm the authority on it so so
I want to make sure we have all of you
know have our ducks in a row so I did go
on the website and I'm trying to find
the page right here okay but I think we
don't we're not in any under any you
know urgency here right so we have
sounds like we have to do some more
research and and maybe see what you know
if the treasure if we find out more
information so okay so know that I have
re out Outreach to her I'm sure she'll
get back to me she usually does within a
few days I only sent the email yesterday
so maybe she can guide us on how we
could do that and then I guess their
second
subject like Eric had told us too at any
given town the town at any given time
the town has
their cash flow going through the stiff
account already um depending on what's
coming in and out so most of the money
is there so that's a good thing so I
just think we need clarification on the
AES Capital fund account as well you
know the AES 2% La non laap account the
2% but then I think they asked about in
the same email they did ask about the
capital account as well so like you said
no decision I don't feel has to be made
tonight um
definitely I had gone to a board of ed
meeting and spoke up and another Board
of Ed member had spoken up too just
stating that we're glad
that you know we have the stiff account
we're glad the Board of Ed has a capital
account now and we'll get all of the the
logistics of stiff accounts worked out
eventually but you know we've got to get
all the the facts
together Mark sorry the one thing to
that that the board has never really
weighed in on is that since we moved the
money into the stiff account and
actually even before that the town
always accounted for that interest
income just as a revenue stream overall
for the town um and in fact we list
investment interest um as a separate
line item on the town's Budget on the
income side um you know and and it's a
fairly considerable amount in if you
take 12 months of data December 1 23
through December 1 124 that's about
184,000 in Revenue so it's a pretty big
chunk of change that we're getting from
the
interest but the question has become
should that be sub allocated to all the
capital funds AES thinks that um the AES
Capital
fund um and or the 2% non-aps and the
AES Capital fund those interests should
be allocated to the uh individual
account not to the budget as a whole and
that is a border of Finance
question how you want to deal with that
because if you're if we're going to be
sub allocating then that's basically
$160,000
$170,000 whole in our budget we have to
fill um so that that's really a you guys
question yeah I thought we had taken
that question up I thought we had
addressed that I think that the
generally I think the feeling of the
board was that it it was fair that if
the you know there's a capital account
that's dedicated for the school that it
should you know that the or the 2% non
lapsing account that any any interest
that ACC
Creed really should be allocated back to
those
counts
um I thought I thought it was discussed
that it would stay with the general fund
I may be misremembering yeah we may have
to go back and look and it could be that
we never took action but just voice
General opinion on it too I feel like
it's been discussed a lot and Eric spoke
better than I clarified about you know
we're trying to say this is a good
income stream for the town you know
having the stiff account in general and
I I spoke up at their meeting and said
it right to them that I get this I get
this is new and everybody wants their
piece of the pie I guess you know is
what I want to say like if it's the
money allocated there they want the
interest too but we can't lose sight of
the whole thing in general is just good
for the town and so I was very pleased
um I'm taking my lead from Eric that a
board of ed members spoke the same way
at their meeting and said you know we
get it we do want to get interest but
overall let's be for the town getting
this extra money and then I don't think
we did take action we didn't I think I
think Mark's right I think we thought it
was fair but I think it was at the we're
just at the beginning stages of trying
to figure all this out because it's
extra didn't really dig into it yeah and
then we will have to under my person we
may have decided it was really a
decision to budget time now that I think
about it yeah because that would change
the allocations right so I think that we
may have deferred it to the budget
process
M okay I mean it's a hard one to say
because like Eric said if we take it
away then we have to fill that hole yeah
which we don't want to do you know I
mean it was it's a it's a bonus for the
town but I understand certain funds like
we're gonna have to to talk about it
more I think you just end up with the
reduction in the allocation to those
funds right right that would keep the
intent of the uh
the budgetary
allocations but the way those funds are
set up in the past they wouldn't have
made that kind of Interest anyways right
right they would not have made that
interest they and the accounts that they
were in in all their little individual
accounts they were probably making 0 Z
something percent interest and so this
is a bonus for the town it's a good
thing for the town for everyone and on
their own they would not have made this
kind of interest it's it's a benefit to
the town that everybody's going to
benefit from so I I think that's how we
have to look at that but I agree yeah
yeah I mean one way or the other I mean
there's a certain amount that's going to
go into those Capital funds and there's
a certain amount that has to go into
revenue for the town to pay our expenses
so you know my guess is that if we do
allocate that that interest back into
those accounts we're probably going to
have to reduce the amount going into
those into those funds right right I
mean if we keep it simple
take yeah right keep it simple and keep
the interest in the general fund or the
whatever and then every budget season
we're going to have to contribute
towards a capital
fund of one or another
anyway yeah and I don't know how much
work this would put on the treasure
whoever is allocating you know maybe
cherl had said it wasn't that big of a
deal okay yeah she didn't seem to think
it was a huge thing it sounded like a
pain in the butt to me didn't seem to
think it was that big of a deal um so I
didn't see that as a uh as a big
obstruction I think it's more just
philosophically you know how do we want
to deal with it as a town and I think
we're so new isn't this our first full
cycle of having this additional Revenue
so to have all of these decisions and
you
know it's yeah yeah but I do think it is
something we have to address as part of
the budget process you know we we'll
have to make that decision right
oh okay so I noticed on the the minutes
from the
1218 meeting it says under new business
at the very end it mentions
about let's
see the 2% non-aps account not included
in policy as in a separate account but
under that it says Boe able to add
surplus funds to either
account so I can probably explain that
to you so the Board of Ed presumably
most years runs at the end of the year a
slight
Surplus um you know as does the town
okay the the Board of Ed by state law up
to 2% of their budget can be put into
What's called the 2% non-aps account
without any other approvals by anybody
they just have to notify you that
they're doing it and then it's it's the
treasurer's responsibility to
automatically
transfer they basically cut the town a
check from the town's or from the the
school's checking account that goes into
the two n 2% non-aps and account and
then there is
additional any money outside that 2%
non-aps account what we've done the last
year is we've allowed them to put that
into
the uh the AES capital account now they
could choose not to put that money in
the 2%
[Music]
nonlinguistic school has Capital
expenditures that we need to be
budgeting for and the object is to set
up all these Capital funds so that you
essentially level fund so you don't get
any big shocks in any one year when a
project comes up you keep putting money
into it and then boom now you need to
tap it for
X that makes sense
okay okay thanks excuse me Louise did
you get the email we had sent out the
the revised policy
of the um I think that's what that was
referring to right what what AES could
do with their money at the end of the
year once it's been audited yeah Eric
Eric just went through it but if you I
think I included you on the email and
it's pretty pretty simple so you could
look at that too that has no effect on
any type of surplus I mean from the the
stiff account the monies that they get
from the stiff account no no no not
related
no I forgot you weren't there in
December Louise I think yeah yeah
was okay any other discussion on the
Steph
account okay so we're going to do some
more research there so item 6B is uh Liz
had brought this up this was a
discussion about
transfers um
Town garage for the equipment oh I think
I did yeah Kim I'm sorry did I say
Louise Liz you
did no Kim Kim did Kim did sorry so I
didn't put I just wanted to ask if
because we sold some equipment has the
money gone back into the general fund
for the sale of the equipment because
I'm not able to figure that out looking
at the information that I have and I
believe that that's what's supposed to
happen
yes that was a recommendation from the
board of Selectmen which the board of
Finance voted to send it directly to the
general fund okay so you won't see that
because it was so it's in the current
budget year so you won't you know that's
not something we're really going to see
and have visibility on I mean we could
give you deposit tickets and and show
you that it went in but you won't see
that pick that up until the audit comes
out not this audit that we're going to
get in a month or so but the audit in a
year plus a month or so okay okay I'm
just trying to figure this all out and I
I wanted to ask that question thank you
yep so I know also that the town
administrator's report was submitted
from the agenda
was that on
purpose uh normally
do talking about this for today's
meeting
yeah I don't see it on the agenda no we
yeah we didn't really have it yeah I
just gave you the board of because not
most of you don't go to the board of the
I didn't write a separate administrator
report for the board of Finance
sometimes I do but I just we're in the
budget season I don't have time so I
just threw my existing report that I
gave to the board of Selectmen to give
to you because that has some information
yeah it's in there it's just it's not on
the agenda but it's in our see yeah I
see that all right so we're not going to
discuss it
then ni I take
it is that
correct Mark I think you're muted sorry
yeah uh we can't because it's
technically not on the budget I mean we
could talk about it during board open
discussion yeah not on the agenda thank
on the agenda okay not a
problem okay so Kim you are you good
with the answer there so it sounds like
those transfers were done or being done
and uh yes I am we can okay thank you
yep okay and then I have also item six
uh C this is the question I think that
Liz brought up about the ahm uh
allocation and Liz your questions were
answered in the previous discussion
right yes I will um find out the answer
to my questions
and go from there okay add add him to
Future meetings
to
okay so if we're good there then the
next item is
uh agenda item seven board open
discussion does anybody have anything
they'd like to bring before the board
um I will all oh I was gonna say I could
let you all know go
ahead I am uh headed to Florida for the
month of
February um I will
be just moving my domicile for a month
to go for something warm um I will be
able to attend all the meetings through
zoom and all that as well so are you I'm
sorry are you volunteering to host the
meetings there in Florida is that what
yeah sure come on down Indian Shores
come on down oh I was just there last uh
last May or April Indian Shores yeah I
have a good friend at Bradon but we had
a kind of a GU trip down there so oh fun
yeah so I'll be there for the month and
be back to early March you know because
we're
driving um March will that
affect hopefully I'll be back by the 5th
if I'm not I'll I'll be calling in from
wherever I am you'll have access
reme Comm I'm bringing everything with
me so okay okay good have fun
Joanne board open discussion yep yep
just I have a quick question for Eric I
had emailed him but I don't think he saw
it or I know he's busy Eric I know that
um and I'm not asking anything personal
about Personnel or anything like that
but you had stated in one of our
meetings that because of the change in
the formula to the murf system that you
know and we it's public knowledge we
have a retirement coming up in the town
you know due to whatever is there is
there some kind of can you tell me what
happened is it just in the formula and
figuring out payments to the employees
or was there anything that affects the
town contributions or things so it
affects the
town
positively in the sense that when the
actuaries crunch the numbers it means
the town has to put Less in uh to the
account than we did previously as you
might have remembered the
the the percentage of a person's salary
that the town had to contribute had
climbed to you know somewhere in the low
18% into the requirement and the change
dropped it down to about
15% what it does basically is states
that uh instead of the the way it used
to be is that there was an automatic
cost of living increase for retirees
that was I think
2.5% um it could be higher if inflation
was higher than that but it couldn't be
lower than 2% and that provision is
going away over the next couple of years
so if the inflation rate is less than
two and a
half% um then the employees would get
less of a cola in that period so it's
enough of a change that several two
employees are going to take it um the
town clerk is retiring as of eight days
from now and the Public Works Foreman or
Supervisor Jay cuddle is probably
leaving prior to July
one and the the change is affects this
whole year they're allowed when did you
say it's going to change again sorry uh
the change anybody that is still an
employee as of July one is affected by
the change yeah thank you Eric now I
understand y appreciate
it okay anything else for the board open
discussion uh you might ask Rob to talk
a little bit about
CIP Rob would you like to talk about CIP
well yeah sure let's see if I remember
it right Eric um we had a presentation
from the fire department they were
asking us to approve a project to
replace some counters and a Cabinetry in
their kitchen uh well they they two
rooms the kitchen was cabinet and
counters and there was like their I
don't know operational room what have
you their counters beat
up um the problem is I forget the price
tag that we agreed up to Eric do you
recall
uh I would have to go back and look at
the CIP meeting minutes I was at the
meeting where CIP approved that the
estimate from Ron Mike was around
$166,000 I feel like we approved up to
18 more than that yeah I think we
rounded up a bit just to give them some
play because a couple people raised some
questions and you know you might want to
check on this or that so I think we
wanted to give them a little bit more uh
the stuff they've got is quite old um I
you know it's not in disastrous
condition but I I think we felt it was
justified and so agreed to bless it and
send it onward
um so that's that was the the gist of
things oh and and the they targeting
this budget
Year yes right so Mark actually what I
suggested is that since that is a
building related expense it would
probably be reasonable to take that out
of the building maintenance fund um
which is the capital fund for those
types of projects um especially since we
yeah so so I think we have the budget
left over in that fund we can
theoretically do it this year um I've
asked the fire department to come back
with um at least three full responsible
quotes on that um
you know and they're separating out the
Cabinetry from the the uh the top um so
they'll have have quotes for both those
elements um both with labor so the board
of Selectmen has agreed tentatively to
take it out of this budget but they want
to see the actual details of the quote
um but so just bringing it to your
attention that that's that's happening
and seeing whether you had any questions
concerns with that part and then the
other thing was the um their
equipment they need to replace a bunch
of their turn up GE right turn up GE no
I think we knew that was pending yeah
and uh once again I'm sorry I'm a little
out of it today I can't remember off the
top of my head what the price tag was on
that it was more I think um and that one
obviously would come out of the fire
equipment fund I think it was Che
200,000 wasn't it it's just 200,000 yeah
because it's like 30 pieces of gear or
something like that or 20 pieces of gear
would they they want to change out
everything to keep everything
standardized it was you know it was a
good explanation from
Wally yeah so my my question about that
is does it all have to be changed at the
same I mean we're talking $200,000 can
they
do like they can't step it up like five
this year because I know there's 30
pieces or something like that right so
Wally's explanation was that it's really
really really helpful to have all the
equipment be the same because there are
a little changes and then you have to
have people trained on different types
of
equipment if you might not have a single
set um so even so I mean since it's been
a while since we changed out the
equipment there have been changes these
things kind of go through iterations and
they function slightly
differently and so they they would you
would have to have your training it it
might make their training process um a
lot more complicated if they were having
multiple sets of
equipment so it made sense to do it all
in in one shot I see I mean if there
wasn't that hurdle then yes I think I
absolutely they' look at doing a staged
swap out 10 at a time or
something we can we can always have
Wall-E come and make presentation to us
B question got asked by that kind of
money yeah yeah that I mean we asked
that question um you know and he and
that was I think I'm giving a reasonable
fact Sim of his
explanation um it it really boiled down
to to this the fact that it wouldn't be
the same stuff and so you'd have guys
who knew how you do one one piece of
equipment but not the other and then you
have to train them on both and and then
in an emergency situation which ones do
you have on the truck and it they didn't
like that idea at all let's put it that
way yeah I think I think we should have
them come and talk about it when when
the time
comes how do you know how many
firefighters or volunteer firefighters
we
have roughly
35 okay between oh really that many but
yeah but that that includes not
everybody's a firefighter that includes
the EMS overall there's about 35 uh
members of the endover volunteer fire
department but not everybody's a a
trained fireman
um the what could potentially be done
and it would not be what the board the
fire dep Department would necessarily
want um if they're going to turn it over
because the the the SCBA units that they
have now are
vintage uh they're a design from the mid
80s um that was like the fourth
iteration um of that type of equipment
um when they bought it and they although
they acquired that over a period of time
as the department got bigger they
purchased all of that same essentially
model and vintage um so some of the
stuff they have is as old as 30 some of
the SCBA stuff is as old as 35 years old
um some of that is newer
um on each vehicle they have they need
basic basically eight
sets um so and there's really two
vehicles that the sets would go on um so
theoretically they could the minimum
they could transition at once would be
16 um they would prefer to transition 20
at once because 20 gives them two sets
for putting people through the
Connecticut fire academy
because you're required to carry your
own s SCBA and it's not available to the
town if you're off training and then you
know one to two units in case you have
them in for repair because you have to
send them back when when they in for
repair
so you know one possibility would be to
purchase if we're really tight on funds
would be to purchase 16 of them um and
then wait two years and purchase another
four
um and get them all the same vintage so
that's a possibility that's not what
they would
prefer um you know and I'm I'm sure the
Fire Commission would be happy to give
bring you in the actual equipment to
look at and and understand why but
basically what they don't want to do is
if you're grabbing a set off the rack um
and you're plugging in your air bottles
you want all the controls where you know
they're going to be and you want the
hookup to be the way you know you don't
want to grab one set and then grab a
backup set and then have it be set up
differently so that is the goal um a lot
of their other gear like their turnout
their the the helmets the the physical
turnout gear that is all just part of
their operations budget they buy a
little bit of that every year they buy
some boots they buy some pants they buy
some of the smoks they buy some gloves
but the the turnout gear is the the
thing they want to buy kind of in
Mass
theba
say is there a way to get a link for
what they want to purchase just so I can
make myself familiar with it I'm trying
to you know understand all of
this I think if you Google turnout gear
or you'll get an idea of I think the ISS
is the self-contained breathing
apparatus it's the mask and the oxygen
Regulators this is the stuff that yeah
keeps them alive in in a fire situation
the other thing is I'm just curious I
think there's a really limited number of
Manufacturers where they can get this
stuff and they've had a long and good
experience with with the one they want
to use so is what it makes it tricky to
kind of try and save money because you
know there's not a lot of places to go
and places where they they can like
vouch that the the manufacturer is good
for the you know not only the equipment
but the the repair stuff too right Eric
where they have to send things back
periodically to get them fixed up
because they inspect these things very
consistently and if any throws any kind
of error they're going to have to send
it back they can't repair them you
know okay well sounds like action for
action for a future meeting and I think
with that amount we we definitely want
some uh in depth discussion about it g
Wally give his Spiel um for
sure
okay any other topics for the board open
discussion um I just have one Eric looks
like the old Charter is still on the
town website I don't know if we can get
that updated to the new one
and that's all I have um speaking of the
website there's a couple other things I
notice are
missing
um where is my list I started writing a
list because every now and then I'll go
on to look for something and I'll click
a link and it's broken I'm
like and I I should deal with it when it
comes up but I
don't um I think it was
the so the final
budget for this year is not on in the
budget tab on the on
the
website
and I think there was
also the last time I saw an annual
report that was um uploaded on the
website is 2020 to 2021 shouldn't should
shouldn't we have those every
year yep
or is that something
that should we see those every year
should those be updated every year I
don't know I'm just
asking uh there should be a report every
year yes okay well there isn't then
um and I was wondering why under the
finance Department page there's a
link there's a link here to visit
Andover Elementary School
website just it's just a little thing
but just curious under why the finance
department
page there's a link to visit Andover
Elementary School
website I guess a big CH of our budget
probably yeah
probably they don't control it yeah yeah
as I find other little things like that
Eric I'll just keep a list of them and
I'll shoot you over an email because
yeah assum that would be perfect and and
one thing that I'll you know to be
honest with you um last
year because I know I needed help
doing uh essentially project management
um I swapped from having a full-time not
a full-time but a part-time admin
assistant to just assigning my admin
assistant role to the part-time tax
collector so um that is the only person
we have doing website updates so it is
problematic and and I admit that it's
just
a yeah oh this isn't a criticism it's
just things I notice now and then now
and then and you know yeah absolutely
but I should just let you know yeah
shoot those to me in an email and I'll
forward them to to Kate to address so
yeah anything else for board open
discussion okay hearing none I guess
we'll go on to item eight which is
correspondence if we had any
correspondence other than the uh ahm
thing which I think we all got uh the
next last day or
so I haven't received anything no we had
the email that we already addressed from
the Board of Ed about the you yeah about
the stiff account so y
yeah okay I guess we move on to agenda
item nine which is public speak uh looks
like we still have Charlene uh is our
only member of the public there do you
have anything uh you want to bring up
Charlene uh no thank you I'm all set
okay thank
you and uh
I give you a lot of credit for sticking
through this I know fascinating stuff I
know uh and so that brings us to
adjournment would anybody like to make a
motion to
adjourn I'll make a motion to adjourn
okay Louise makes a motion to adjourned
we have a second I'll second it okay Kim
saw your hand first any discussion
they'll
try all those in favor say I I I any
opposed
okay any abstentions hearing none and
the meeting is adjourned thank you
everybody and uh we'll uh we'll be
seeing each other before too long feel
better quite a bit